Open [:open_file_folder:**IPYNB**](03.Loss_analysis_of_the_ProcrastinatePRO+_application.ipynb) [:open_file_folder:**HTML**](03.Loss_analysis_of_the_ProcrastinatePRO+_application.html)

### 03. Loss analysis of the ProcrastinatePRO+ application.

__Описание__
- Metrics of LTV, ROI, CAC, RR, conversions, etc. A lot of work exploring trade and other metrics of users of the Procrastinate Pro+ entertainment Internet application, which sells worldwide. 

__Tools & experience__
- pandas
- numpy
- datetime
- matplotlib
- seaborn
- cohort analysis
- unit-economy
- product metrics

__Steps__
- Data is loaded and preprocessed, part of the columns is converted to the date type
- Several functions are being created (in fact, a local library) for data processing, calculating various metrics, smoothing and printing graphs
- A lot of CRR, LTV, ROMI, CAC diagrams are being built, their dynamics for paying and non-paying users across the market and by region, by devices used by customers, by channels of attraction, including organic users 
- As a result of the study, a rather unexpected conclusion is made about the unprofitability of the American market for this company and the need to develop other areas.

__Main conclusions and recommendations__

The overwhelming number of users the next day disappears; if this is not the specifics of the business, then it may be worth working on retention in general. This could be helped by studying the difference in user behavior on the web pages of banner and organic users (recall, in the "organic" channel, the retention level is noticeably higher, and banner users, for whom additional funds are spent, are held worse than conditionally free "organics").
The TipTop advertising provider consumes 52% of expenses, generating only 13.04% of paying customers (this is a clear disparity), and spending in this channel is unreasonably growing and exceeds the level of other channels by at least 3.5 times.
In terms of devices, Mac and iPhone payback is bad, PC has also stopped paying off since the fall.
The USA is the most economically disadvantaged region for the company (despite there the conversion rate is much higher). Notwithstanding the large market (2/3 of users), the cost of acquisition customers on it is several times more than in other regions.
Therefore, it makes sense to think about the redistribution of the advertising budget in favor of more profitable channels, regions and even devices (for this, see the graphs and conclusions above), as well as to look for solutions designed to reduce the outflow of users (especially banner ones) on the second day.
