Open [:open_file_folder:**IPYNB**](02.Studying_laws_that_determine_success_of_games.ipynb) [:open_file_folder:**HTML**](02.Studying_laws_that_determine_success_of_games.html)

### 02. Studying the laws that determine success of the games.

__Description__
- The customer is an online store that sells computer games all over the world. Historical data on game sales, user and expert ratings, genres and platforms are analyzed. Patterns determining the success of the game are revealed, which will allow the customer to bet on a potentially popular product and plan advertising campaigns. The market has been investigated since 1980, all data except for the last 2 years are rejected as irrelevant. It is proved that the correlation of sales with the ratings of critics and users is weak. The PS4 and XOne platforms will remain the leaders for the time being. The game genres in the context of regions are analyzed, the features of the Japanese computer games market are noted. Stattests of two hypotheses were carried out.

__Tools & expirience__
- seaborn
- matplotlib 
- numpy 
- pandas 
- random 
- scipy 
- data preprocessing 
- research data analysis 
- descriptive statistics 
- testing statistical hypotheses

__Steps__
- loading and preprocessing of data (checking for omissions, removing duplicates, installing "stubs", generating random release years starting from the release date of the platform for games that do not have a record by year of release)
- formation of a column of total sales for all regions
- research of sales dynamics, construction of scale diagrams
- evaluation of the correlation of sales with the ratings of critics and users
- building diagrams describing the most popular platforms and genres
- study of the impact of the ESRB rating on sales by region
- statistical verification of two hypotheses.

__Conclusions__
- As can be seen from the graphs above, not only the number of games, but also sales as such, have been increasing significantly since the year of release in 1995 and reach a maximum for releases in 2009. By now (2016), the market is falling financially. The period 1980-1995 can be considered a stage of smooth development, and the year 1995 is the start of the computer games boom, which is a thing of the past.
- It is most likely that next year the leadership will remain with the PS4 and XOne platforms, but 3DS will be able to compete with them in the coming years, since its schedule has a more flat appearance. WiiU grew in the period 2011-2012 and equaled the sales of the PS3. So this is also a strong player who can fight from next year for a place in the top three.
- On the chart of the scope of the PS4, they have large sales due to emissions (see the chart "Platform leaders for 2016 (releases 2014+)"). That is, they have "star games" that contribute to gross sales, but the second half of the list are stable middle-class, already without emissions. On the Wii and WiiU platforms, the median value is quite high for non-users, that is, sales are provided by fewer at a higher price, similarly for the PS2 and DS platforms.
- Correlation for 9 platforms of sales leaders in the context of sales - critics' ratings. There is not enough data for calculation for GBA, N64, PS. There are only 3 ratings for DS and PS2 platforms, in the first case the correlation is very high negative, in the second high positive. For 3DS, PC, PS4, PS3 platforms, the correlation of sales with critics' ratings is weak, very weak, weak and average.
- Correlation for 9 platforms of sales leaders in the context of sales - user ratings. There is too little data for GBA, DS, N64, PS, PS2. For PC, PS3, PS4, the correlation is very weak, and negative. Only for 3DS the correlation is positive, but also very weak.
- On the "box with mustache" chart, Shooter is a clear leader in the period 2014-2016, its median is ahead of the 3rd quartile in almost all other genres. Next, with a noticeable lag, is the Sports genre. Inside the median, the WiiU platform is a leader in Racing, Fighting, Sports. According to Shooter leader XOne, in the genre of Misc leader Wii. In terms of sales, the Action genre is in the lead, Shooter is in second place. PS4 leads in the genres of Action, Shooter, Sports, and in the genre of Role-Playing passes 3DS in first place.
- PS4 is the leader in North America, XOne is in second place. In Europe, the unequivocal leader is PS4, followed by XOne with a lag. In Japan, 3DS is the absolute leader, followed by PS4 and PSV. In other regions, the total leader is PS4 (as in Europe) and behind it with a margin of XOne, and PS3 is in 3rd place. Interestingly, in Japan, almost the entire market is disassembled under 5 leaders, others occupy a very small share.
- Shooter and Action genres are leading in North America. Action and Shooter genres are leading in Europe. In Japan, the leaders are Role-Playing and Action. In the rest of the world, the Action and Shooter genres are leading. The Sports genre is popular everywhere (3rd place), but not in Japan, the Japanese have the "other" genres in 3rd place.
- According to ESRB ratings, North American and European data are almost the same. The rest of the regions practically repeat this trend, only on a smaller scale (the curve is shifted down relative to Europe and North America). And the Japanese market has its own specifics: its line has a peak in the field of programs with the label no_esrb. The no_esrb label has almost the same level of sales in the European, North American and Japanese markets.
- Statistics. "Hypothesis: average user ratings of Xbox One and PC platforms are the same" was accepted with alpha 0.01. Hypothesis: "average user ratings of Action and Sports genres are different" was accepted with alpha 0.01.
